
Linear regression


R-square value tells you how much variation is explained by your model. So 0.1 R-square means that your model explains 10% of variation within the data. The greater R-square the better the model. Whereas p-value tells you about the F statistic hypothesis testing of the "fit of the intercept-only model and your model are equal". So if the p-value is less than the significance level (usually 0.05) then your model fits the data well.
if the p-value is not significant then we conclude that the relation between the Beta coefficient and the dependent variable is not significant or x-value is not a very good influencer of y-value.

R-square is proportion of variation in Y that is explained by X
R-square increases when a new variables are added to the model
adj R-square increases only when the significant variables are added to the model.


OLS- ordinary least squares or least squares of the errors
s
Validate a model:
---------------------
1. R-square: higher the r-square better the model.
2. fit-chart- Actual vs Fitted Values.
3. MAPE: Mean Absolute percentage error: mean(Abs(Actual-predict/Actual))%, lower the Percent better the model.
	if error is 5-10% then its a good model

BLUE: Best Lineat unbiased Estimators

Regression Results: Assumptions
-------------------------------
1. Check for linearity- plot the residuals
	we should not see any pattern or we should see more scatter.
2. Residuals should have constant variance - homoscedasticity.
	we should not see any pattern in the residuals plot.
3. Residuals should be normally distributed.
4. Co-relation between independent variables must not be more than 40%, leads to multi colinearity
	if the case of co-linearity tranform the variables or combine the variables.

 variance inflation factor (VIF) for a model
 a VIF value that exceeds 5 or 10 indicates a problematic amount of collinearity 

Logistic Regression:
----------------------------
Its a binomial or categorical variable predictor:
or Probability of the variable.
P(Y)=B0+B1X1+e.
Y- dependent variable
X- independent variable

we can use odds ratio: P/1-P (prob of success/prob of failure)
i.e. log(p/1-p)= B0+B1X1+e











